# An end-to-end approach to autonomous vehicle control using deep learning

This repository contains the code developed in the undergraduate thesis written by Gustavo Antonio Magera Novello and Henrique Yda Yamamoto with the supervision of Prof. Eduardo Lobo Lustosa Cabral in Mechatronics Engineering Department of Polytechnic School of the University of São Paulo. 

The objective of this work is to develop an autonomous vehicle controller inside a simulation environment. It is used an end-to-end approach, in which the model maps directly the inputs from the image of a car hood camera and a sequence of speed values to three driving commands: steering wheel angle, accelerator pedal pressure and brake pedal pressure. The developed model is composed of a convolutional neural network and a recurring neural network. The convolutional network processes the images and the recurrent network processes the speed data, the results of the two networks are concatenated and then processed by a dense neural network to obtain the three driving commands. The model learns from data generated by a human driver´s commands of steering wheel angle, accelerator pedal pressure and brake pedal pressure. The simulation platform used is the Grand Theft Auto V game, which presents an environment with great diversity of scenarios. Two interfaces are developed: one for collecting in-game training data and another to enable verify the performance of the model for the autonomous vehicle control. The driving data collected to train the model is obtained on a selected circuit of the game map that has several curves, uphill and downhill, in different weather conditions and hours of the day. As a first attempt, to verify the capability of the developed model and the end-to-end approach, the data is collected without the presence of other cars and pedestrians. The results show that the model after training is capable to drive the vehicle as well as a human driver. This proves that a combination of a convolutional network with a recurrent network, using an end-to-end approach, is capable of obtaining a good driving performance even using only images and speed velocity as sensory data.
